When you were younger, your parents were probably the first ones you ran to for advice.
But now you might feel that your parents just don't understand you.
Deep down, you still want to talk to them.
But what if you try and you feel they just aren't listening?
Well, you could raise your voice, but shouting won't make your parents more receptive
and won't show them the respect they deserve.
You could give your parents the silent treatment, but the Bible suggests at Proverbs 15-22
that things only get more frustrating when you don't talk.
So saying nothing really gets you nowhere.
It's smarter to just wait for a better time to talk,
or you might even write them in an honest but respectful letter expressing how you feel.
But what if the situation is flipped?
Yeah, that's right. Your parents want to talk, but you don't.
Maybe you had a bad day at school.
It's true that choosing to talk when you don't feel like it could mean the conversation will be forced,
which makes everyone tense and leads to poor communication.
But refusing to talk means you'll still be stressed,
and your parents might think that the problem is bigger than it is,
or worse, that you're hiding something.
Instead, you could start off talking with them on a subject that isn't as stressful,
or even one that makes you happy.
That will ease the tension, or get rid of it altogether.
The bottom line?
Your parents want to help you, and you can use their help.
So, choose your words carefully, deliver them respectfully,
and think of your parents as friends, not enemies.
Because let's face it, you'll need all the allies you can get to cope with the challenges that lie ahead.